Migration (#2382)
openmicroscopy/ome-documentation: omero/sysadmins/system-migration.rst

  The primary roles, `omero-server <https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/standalone/roles/ome/omero_server/>`_ and `omero-web <https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/standalone/roles/ome/omero_web/>`_ allow to install respectively the OMERO.server and OMERO.web.

- `Docker images <https://hub.docker.com/u/openmicroscopy>`_ are also available. We offer production quality images of both `omero-server`
  and `omero-web`.

Please get in touch at https://forum.image.sc/c/data if you have any questions.

Backup and restore
------------------

Mininally, you will need to back up and restore the binary repository and the database.

Backup
~~~~~~

- Perform the backups following the :doc:`backup instructions<server-backup-and-restore>`. 
- When ready, copy them to the new operating system::

    rsync -ra --progress db.dump NEW_OPERATING_SYSTEM:/tmp
    rsync -ra --progress OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP NEW_OPERATING_SYSTEM:/tmp

On the new operating system, stop the OMERO.server.

Restore the binary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Remove all the directories under ``/OMERO`` e.g. ``sudo rm -rf /OMERO/*``.

> - Change ownership and group of the renamed directories under ``OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP`` (exception is the backup diretory containing the ``omero.config`` i.e. ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup``)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change ownership and group of the directories under ``OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP`` (but do not change the ownership of the backup diretory containing the ``omero.config`` i.e. ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup``)::
```

    sudo chown -R omero-server /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/ManagedRepository/
    sudo chgrp -R managed_repo_group /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/ManagedRepository/

> - As the ``omero-server`` user, move the renamed backup directories under ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP`` (exception ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup``) to ``/OMERO``, for example::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As the ``omero-server`` user, move the backup directories under ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP`` (exception ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup``) to ``/OMERO``, for example::
```

    sudo -u omero-server -s
    mv /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/ManagedRepository /OMERO/ManagedRepository
 

Restore the database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Restore the database backup following the :doc:`restore PostgresQL instructions<server-backup-and-restore>`.

Restore the OMERO.server configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Restore the backup configuration::

   omero config load /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup/omero.config

> You should then follow the *Reconfiguration* steps of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should then follow the *Configuration* steps of
```

> :doc:`install <unix/server-installation>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:doc:`OMERO.server installation <unix/server-installation>` to adjust your configuration as/if necessary.
```

> Migrate to a new operation system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrate to a new operating system
```

=================================

This is an example walkthrough for migrating an OMERO.server to a new operating
system.

Basic steps
-----------

#. Choose a platform. If your current installation platform
   does not match one of the :doc:`recommended platforms <version-requirements>`,
   you may want to choose a new platform as your migration target. See
   `Choosing a platform`_ below.

> #. Install OMERO.server and OMERO.web *separately* (not necessary)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If you chhose to Install OMERO.server and OMERO.web *separately* (optionally, you can install both on a single device):
```

>    It will be preferrable to choose the same platform for both installations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It will be preferrable to choose the same platform type for both installations.
```

>    if you install OMERO.server and OMERO.web *separately*

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

#. Once both have been installed, perform an OMERO.server `Backup and restore`_ procedure.

Choosing a platform
-------------------

The two recommended platforms are RHEL/RockyLinux 9 and Ubuntu 22.04.

Installation
------------

> The installation walkthroughs provided in the documentation try to stick to a minimum installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The installation walkthroughs provided in the documentation covers a minimum installation only.
```

> Check the main :doc:`server <unix/server-installation>` and :doc:`web <unix/install-web/web-deployment>` installation pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this, check the main :doc:`server <unix/server-installation>` and :doc:`web <unix/install-web/web-deployment>` installation pages.
```

However, more advanced installation mechanisms are available if you are interested and have familiarity
with the given mechanism:

- `Ansible roles <https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/standalone/namespaces/5249/>`_ are available for most installation steps. 
  The primary roles, `omero-server <https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/standalone/roles/ome/omero_server/>`_ and `omero-web <https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/standalone/roles/ome/omero_web/>`_ allow to install respectively the OMERO.server and OMERO.web.

> - `Docker images <https://hub.docker.com/u/openmicroscopy>`_ are also available. Both the `omero-server`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Docker images <https://hub.docker.com/u/openmicroscopy>`_ are also available. We offer production quality images of both `omero-server`
```

>   and `omero-web` images are considered production quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and `omero-web`.
```

> Please get in touch at https://forum.image.sc/c/data if you have any questions.

Reviewer: Maybe https://forum.image.sc/tag/omero ?

Backup and restore
------------------

Mininally, you will need to back up and restore the binary repository and the database.

Backup
~~~~~~

- Perform the backups following the :doc:`backup instructions<server-backup-and-restore>`. 
- When ready, copy them to the new operating system::

    rsync -ra --progress db.dump NEW_OPERATING_SYSTEM:/tmp
    rsync -ra --progress OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP NEW_OPERATING_SYSTEM:/tmp

On the new operating system, stop the OMERO.server.

Restore the binary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Remove all the directories under ``/OMERO`` e.g. ``sudo rm -rf /OMERO/ManagedRepository``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove all the directories under ``/OMERO`` e.g. ``sudo rm -rf /OMERO/*``.
```

Maybe like this ? If an example is saying "remove only ManagedRepo", then it is slightly confusing. Somebody still might be tempted to read this as "remove only ManagedRepo" I would try to prevent the confusion by the "star" in the command.

> - Change ownership and group of the renamed directories under ``OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP`` (exception is the backup diretory containing the ``omero.config`` i.e. ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup``)::

Reviewer: renamed ? I never renamed any directories.... there is also no instruction above to do so.

    sudo chown -R omero-server /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/ManagedRepository/

>     sudo chgrp -R managed_repo_group /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/ManagedRepository/

Reviewer: again, this suggests that only the ManagedRepo is to be handled. But in my hands, the Files are necessary as well. I think that the workflow is suggesting to move ALL the dirs - but the example only deals with ManagedRepo

Reviewer: maybe just 

```
    sudo chown -R omero-server /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/
    sudo chgrp -R managed_repo_group /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/
```

?

Author: we don't need ```/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup```

Reviewer: > we don't need `/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup`

Aha, then I will suggest to reformulate. Starting with ``Exception is...`` assumes reader immediately figures out what the non-exception state is.

> - As the ``omero-server`` user, move the renamed backup directories under ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP`` (exception ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup``) to ``/OMERO``, for example::

Reviewer: Again - probably remove "renamed"

    sudo -u omero-server -s

>     mv /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/ManagedRepository /OMERO/ManagedRepository

Reviewer: this is okay to leave as is imho, as the previous line says clearly "for example"

 

Restore the database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Restore the database backup following the :doc:`restore PostgresQL instructions<server-backup-and-restore>`.

Restore the OMERO.server configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Restore the backup configuration::

   omero config load /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup/omero.config

You should then follow the *Reconfiguration* steps of

> :doc:`install <unix/server-installation>`.

Reviewer: this is too imprecise, I genuinely do now know what Reconfiguration steps are meant - the doc which is linked is not having any Reconfiguration section. Maybe Configuration section ? But then, I thought that the configuration is being migrated here with the ``omero.config`` file - so why to configure again ?
Like if something else is needed ? Maybe just say "Follow the Configuration section of install if config changes are needed."

- Remove all the directories under ``/OMERO`` e.g. ``sudo rm -rf /OMERO/*``.

- Move the backup diretory containing the ``omero.config``, ``/tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/backup``, out of ``OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP``

- Change ownership and group of the directories under ``OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP``::

    sudo chown -R omero-server /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/

>     sudo chgrp -R managed_repo_group /tmp/OMERO_BINARY_BACKUP/

Reviewer: Sorry, I just realized - not on all servers the ``managed_repo_group`` exist. This is specific for our training servers. I think we need to say something like ``managed_repo_group`` or another as appropriate - this means one needs to compare with what was there before - the groups on other servers can vary. On the demo server the group was even ``root``.

Reviewer: Maybe the group ultimately does not matter, and we could then drop the ``chgrp`` line ?
Either you know this ^^^ or I would have to test it. In reality, I always double-check what was there before and try to chgrp so that it is the same after migration.
